\section{Introduction}
\label{sec:introduction}

The public transportation system is crucial in any urban area; however, the increased awareness and concern of
environmental impacts of petroleum based public transportation has driven an effort to reduce the pollutant footprint
\cite{DeFilippo2014, Xylia2018, Guida2017, Li2016}. Particularly, the electrification of public bus transportation via
battery power, i.e., battery electric buses (BEBs), has received significant attention \cite{Li2016}. Although the
technology provides benefits beyond reduction in emissions, such as lower driving costs, lower maintenance costs, and
reduced vehicle noise, battery powered systems introduce new challenges such as larger upfront costs, and potentially
several hours long ``refueling'' periods \cite{Xylia2018, Li2016}. Furthermore, the problem is exacerbated by the
constraints of the transit schedule to which the fleet must adhere, the limited amount of chargers available, and the
adverse affects in the health of the battery due to fast charging \cite{Lutsey2019}. This paper presents a continuous
scheduling framework for a BEB fleet that shares limited fast and slow chargers. This framework takes into consideration
linear charging dynamics and a fixed bus schedule while meeting a certain battery charge threshold throughout the day.

Many recent efforts have been made to simultaneously solve the problems of route scheduling, and charging fleets and
determining the infrastructure upon which they rely, e.g., \cite{Wei2018, Sebastiani2016, Hoke2014, Wang2017}. Several
simplifications are made to make these problems computationally feasible. These simplifications to the
charge scheduling model include utilizing only fast chargers while planning \cite{Wei2018, Sebastiani2016, Wang2017,
  Zhou2020-0, Liu2020, Yang2018, Wang2017a, Qin2016}. If slow chargers are used, they are only employed at the depot and
not the station \cite{He2020, Tang2019}. Some approaches also simplify by assuming a full charge is always achieved
\cite{Wei2018, Wang2017, Zhou2020-0, Wang2017a}. Others have assumed that the charge received is proportional to the
time spent on the charger \cite{Liu2020, Yang2018}, which can be a valid assumption when the battery state-of-charge
(SOC) is below 80\% charge \cite{Liu2020}.

This work builds upon the Position Allocation Problem \cite{Qarebagh2019}, a modification of the well studied Berth
Allocation Problem (BAP), as a means to schedule the charging of electric vehicles \cite{Buhrkal2010, Frojan2015,
  Imai2001}. The BAP is a continuous time model that solves the problem of allocating space for incoming vessels to be
berthed. Each arriving vessel requires both time and space to be serviced and thus must be carefully assigned a berthing
location \cite{Imai2001}. Vessels are lined up parallel to the berth to be serviced and are horizontally queued as shown
in \autoref{subfig:bapexample}. The PAP utilizes this notion of queuing for scheduling vehicles to be charged, as shown
in \autoref{subfig:papexample}. The PAP is formulated as a rectangle packing problem by assuming that vehicle charging
will take a fixed amount of time, the amount of vehicles that can charge is limited by the physical width of the
vehicles, and each vehicle visits the charger a single time \cite{Qarebagh2019}.

The main contribution of this work is the extension of the PAP's novel approach to BEB charger scheduling. This includes
modeling and incorporation of a proportional charging model into the MILP framework, consideration of multiple charger
types, and inclusion of the route schedule for each bus. The last contribution is of importance because both the BAP and
PAP consider each arrival to be unique; thus, a method of tracking buses must be implemented. Input parameters are
selected in such a manner as to minimize the number of fast and slow charger utilized as well as minimize the power
consumption. The result is a MILP formulation that coordinates charging times and charger type for every visit that each
bus makes to the station while considering a dynamic charge model and scheduling constraints.

The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows: In \autoref{sec:positionallocationproblem}, the PAP is introduced with a
formulation of the resulting MILP. \autoref{sec:problemformulation} constructs the MILP for BEB scheduling, including
modifications to the PAP queuing constraints and development of a dynamic charging model. \autoref{sec:example}
demonstrates an example of using the formulation to coordinate \A buses over \N total visits to the station. The paper
ends in \autoref{sec:conclusion} with concluding remarks.
